Config check (#251)
aklivity/zilla-docs: src/reference/config/bindings/asyncapi/client.md

> `array` of `object`

Topic configuration.

<!-- @include: ../.partials/options-kafka-topics.md -->

#### topics[].defaultOffset

> `enum` [ "live", "historical" ] | Default: `"historical"`

Fetch offset to use for new consumers

#### kafka.sasl

> `object`

SASL credentials to use when connecting to `kafka` brokers.

<!-- @include: ../.partials/options-kafka-sasl.md -->

### options.mqtt-kafka

> `object`

`mqtt-kafka` binding specific options.

#### mqtt-kafka.channels

> `object`

AsyncAPI Kafka channels describing the necessary topics for the MQTT-Kafka mapping.

```yaml
mqtt-kafka:
  channels:
    sessions: mqttSessions
    retained: mqttRetained
    messages: mqttMessages
```

#### channels.sessions

> `string`

AsyncAPI Kafka sessions channel.

```yaml
sessions: mqttSessions
```

#### channels.retained

> `string`

AsyncAPI Kafka retained channel.

```yaml
retained: mqttRetained
```

#### channels.messages

> `string`

AsyncAPI Kafka messages channel.

```yaml
messages: mqttMessages
```

### options.http

#### http.authorization

> `object` as map of named properties

Authorization by guard for the `HTTP/1.1` and `HTTP/2` protocols.

```yaml
authorization:

>   my_jwt_guard:

Reviewer: Currently, as an implementation limitation, the guard _must_ be called `jwt0` so we should document it that way to avoid issues with copy-n-paste.

    credentials:
      headers:
        authorization: Bearer {credentials}
```

<!-- @include: ../.partials/options-http-auth.md -->

### options.mqtt

#### mqtt.authorization

> `object` as map of named properties

> Authorization by guard for the `HTTP/1.1` and `HTTP/2` protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authorization by guard for the `MQTT v3` and `MQTT v5` protocols.
```

```yaml
authorization:

>   my_jwt_guard:

Reviewer: `jwt0` here too.

---
shortTitle: client
---

# asyncapi client

The asyncapi client binding creates composite of `kafka` or `mqtt` or `http`, and `tls`, `tcp` bindings with client kind and adapts AsyncAPI streams to Kafka/MQTT/HTTP streams.

```yaml {3}
<!-- @include: ./.partials/client.yaml -->
```

## Configuration (\* required)

<!-- @include: ../.partials/vault.md -->

### options

> `object`

`client`-specific options.

```yaml
specs:
  http_api:
    servers:
      - name: plain
    catalog:
      my_catalog:
        subject: petstore
        version: latest
```

<!-- @include: ./.partials/options.md -->

### options.kafka

> `object`

`kafka` binding specific options.

#### kafka.topics

> `array` of `object`

Topic configuration.

<!-- @include: ../.partials/options-kafka-topics.md -->

#### topics[].defaultOffset

> `enum` [ `live`, `historical` ]

Fetch offset to use for new consumers

#### topics[].transforms

> `array`

> <!-- todo: Dev input -->

Author: @jfallows I am not sure how to document the transforms options:

```
          transforms:
            - extract-key: ${message.key.id}
            - extract-headers:
                correlation-id: ${message.value.correlationId}
```

```
#### transforms[].extract-key

> `string`

#### transforms[].extract-headers

> `object` as map of named: `string` properties | Pattern: `^\\$\\{message\\.value\\.([A-Za-z_][A-Za-z0-9_]*)\\}$`
```

The `extract-header` property in the schema has a specified pattern but the `extract-key` doesn't. What do we need to convey to the users about this syntax and will the `${message}` syntax be used in other areas?

Reviewer: @vordimous these should both have the same pattern, and they should both be able to reference either the message key or the message value.

```
> `object` as map of named: `string` properties | Pattern: `^\\$\\{message\\.(key|value)\\.([A-Za-z_][A-Za-z0-9_]*)\\}$`
```

Author: Added a pr to zilla to include this pattern on both properties: https://github.com/aklivity/zilla/pull/1251
